# I310D-Telco-project-EERKPCDW
BY: Ethan Eckmann, Rian Kahlon, Preston Cusick, Daniel Wendland

Project created for UT Austin class I310D Introduction to Human-Centered Data Science

The main goal of this project is to use machine learning to advise Telco, a fictional telecommunications company, on steps it can take to reduce customer churn.

As a telecommunications provider, the Telco company's number one priority is preventing "churn", or the rate at which customers discontinue paid services. Using Machine Learning algorithms and visualizations, our team will identify the main factors driving customer churn in the Telco company and offer solutions that would help lower the rate of customer churn in the future.

Included in the project are two .ipynb files:

Supervised_ML_project.ipynb is the larger file and where most of work on the project was done. 
This file: 
Transforms the dataset for use in Machine Learning.
Tests three different Machine learning algorithms.
Generates a 'Probability' field in the dataset for the likelihood of churn in a given entry.
Provides additional visualizations based on the dataset.

Unsupervised ML project.ipynb is a supplementary K-means clustering model that clusters entries into four tiers of risk based on their associated 'Probability' field generated by the Supervised ML model. Generates a 'Churn_Label' field in the dataset.

To use this project, you must download the .ipynb from the Github and the .CSV files posted on Data.world. Upload these files into your chosen coding environment to run

Data.world link:
https://data.world/bethew/i310d-telco-project-eerkpcdw-datasets


Original Telco dataset sourced from kaggle.com
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/yeanzc/telco-customer-churn-ibm-dataset/data
